# system-info-in-linux-using-pipes
I include a C file that contains a code that can be run on on linux terminal to get various system informations. System Monitor Program This program is a simple system monitor that provides information about system resources, user sessions, and memory usage. Please note that I have provided comments throughout the code to help better understand. These comments include useful resources that I used for the assignment as well as some personal comments that help me understand what I did and how I did it later if I decided to look at this assignment once again. Overview of Functions
Functionality
The program consists of the following functions:
1.	print_system_info: Prints essential system information such as system name, machine name, version, release, architecture, and system uptime.
2.	print_users_info: Prints information about user sessions, including the username, terminal line, and IP address. This refreshes based on the number of samples and tdelay provided
3.	print_mem_info: Prints memory usage information, including physical and virtual memory used and total memory. This can also print out graphical version for the code and I am assuming that the change is never greater than 20 mbs, so that printing is not chaotic :-)
4.	clearScreen: Clears the console screen.
5.	displayCores: Prints the number of CPU cores.
6.	displayCPUUsage: Prints the total CPU usage as a percentage. This can also output a graphical version for the code where 2 lines represent no change and a line gets added every time for a change of floor(change).
7.	getInitialInfo: Prints the number of samples and the delay between each sample for monitoring.
8.	Main: The main function parses command-line arguments and determines the program's behavior. It supports options such as the number of samples, delay between samples, sequential mode, system information display, user information display, and graphics mode. The program then executes the corresponding functions based on the provided options. It also gives default values to the constants. If there is no sequential mode indicated, then it calls the function according to the command line arguments. If sequential mode is indicated, it goes through a loop of 10 iterations starting from 0 to 9 and calls the functions to print the various information and has a default delay of 1 second between every iteration. Important note: the program assumes there will not be several command line arguments in the same line, for example: ./a.out --sequential --samples=5 -- tdelay=2 –graphics. It can perform all the commands that were shown in the demo video.  Extending my first assignment, this time I am using pipes for different processes like users, mem information, CPU usage. By design choice, I have followed the pcrs format and I am reading and printing most of the information through the child process. 
How to run: you can use the Makefile provide and just run the command “make all” to compile the program and to run it simply type ./try (any arguments you want to add). Please let me know if there are any issues with this. Thank you :-)

